ABBY LEE (VOICE OVER):
Previously on "Dance Moms."
It's the same choreography,
exactly to the T.
KELLY: It's never
happened before.
She's not letting
them watch each other.
Melissa will lose her [bleep]
if both of her kids lose.
You ruined your entire number.
In the first place,
Too Hot to Handle.
[cheers and applause]
One of our judges,
they gave Chloe a 99.10.
She actually had a 96.6.
That means that the overall
winner would have been Maddie.
CHRISTI: You're
lying. You're lying!
[bleep] you.
You know nothing!
ABBY LEE (VOICE OVER):
Coming up on "Dance Moms."
All of you had the opportunity
to come and see me in LA.
Maddie came out.
We made an agreement about
what we're going to do with the
girls.
We all stood by
that, and you didn't.
I know, storm out--
Oh, I am storming out,
because this is not being
brought up.
- CHRISTI: Feel me!
- MELISSA: Screw you!
Melissa, she doesn't
know what she's doing.
No more recess!
I want to see your character.
Maybe just one of you
will be gone to soon.
Maddie's upset.
Maddie's upset, so don't play
the game.
I'm done. I'm so over it!
[theme music]
Get up, get on the floor.
My world is with my girls.
Living on the dance floor.
[music playing]
ABBY LEE: Come on, let's go!
Move it, move it, move it! Let's
go!
Come on, guys.
Come on, everybody.
So did you miss me?
GIRLS: Yes.
- Really?
- GIRLS: Yes.
ABBY LEE: Okay.
You guys, I missed.
I missed all of
my students here.
However, the moms, not so much.
So while you guys
were in the studio--
well, some of you were in the
studio practicing, learning,
training.
I was doing "Abby's
Dance Competition."
I was in California
learning new things.
I was bettering myself
as a teacher and a
choreographer.
All of you had the opportunity
to come and see me in LA.
Maddie came out.
You worked with the kids,
and you performed a new solo.
- Did you have a good time?
- Yes.
ABBY LEE: Yes.
CHRISTI: Over break,
all the moms made a pact that
none of us
would send our girls to Abby's
West Coast competition because
of the way
she treats the girls.
And when the whole
judging mishap took place,
she handled that terribly.
ABBY LEE: I'm anxious
to get started.
I want to see what
all you've learned.
And I've checked the roll books.
I know who has been in class,
and I know who hasn't been in
class.
Let's go through the pyramid.
We can all remember back then.
Brooke.
Brooke, the faculty here
didn't see too much of you
while I was away.
I was recording a CD,
so I was gone all week too.
Brooke is very passionate
about her singing.
And over the break,
we decided to record a CD for
her.
And I just feel like
Abby should be happy
that Brooke is doing this.
And instead, we come back,
and she puts her
at the bottom of the pyramid.
Paige, do you feel
that you've improved?
Yeah, I think my turns
have been getting better,
because we've had
normal classes,
so that I've been able
to work on them more.
ABBY LEE: And next,
we have Kendall.
Kendall, do you think
you've been improving?
Yes.
I have a private with
James every week,
and he works on my turns.
And he says that they're
getting much better.
ABBY LEE: Okay.
And Nia.
What about you?
I've been taking four extra
classes every single week.
I think that's great.
Good for you.
Nice to hear that.
It's a refreshing change
to have Abby say something
nice and positive
about Nia's dance training.
But unfortunately,
Nia is still at the bottom
of Abby's pyramid.
ABBY LEE: Moving up
we have, Mackenzie.
Mackenzie, you didn't win.
You let Asia beat you.
In first place,
Too Hot to Handle.
[cheers and applause]
It's this.
And it's that confidence.
You let your face go blank.
Are you cute?
Yes.
But you're getting
a little too old for cute.
I'm going to really push
Mackenzie hard this week.
If she's going to beat Asia,
she has to do what it takes.
And now, Chloe.
You had a great performance.
You went out on stage,
you looked beautiful,
your mom was beaming,
they announced you as the
winner.
EMCEE: Entry number 19
from Abby Lee Dance Company, You
Can!
ABBY LEE: The scores
were not right.
You did not win,
you were second.
Did you dance beautifully?
Yes.
But you have to work
on your technique.
Abby would rather go on a diet
than say that Chloe deserved
to be at the top of the pyramid.
And next, we have Asia.
Now, Asia is not here.
Asia will be back in
pyramid next week.
And on top of the
pyramid, we have Maddie.
[applause]
ABBY LEE:
Congratulations, Maddie.
You gave a flawless performance.
And when they announced
Chloe as the winner,
you didn't even flinch.
You were thrilled
for your classmate.
This week, you will be
traveling to Syracuse, New York.
The competition
is In10sity Dance.
Now, this week's assignments.
Maddie, you will be
doing a top solo.
[applause]
Maddie's solo this week is tap,
and she's going
to be so amazing,
because she's a
phenomenal tap dancer.
Mackenzie, you will also
be doing a solo this week.
[applause]
You will not be
performing with the group.
You will be doing a straight
acrobatic gymnastic routine.
This is your last shot
before Asia gets back.
Abby's pushing me to dance more
like Maddie
and the big kids,
but I think I can do it.
I have one more
solo to give out.
And due to what
happened last time,
that solo will go to Chloe.
[applause]
I know that it's unfortunate,
the whole Maddie-Chloe solo
thing.
Mistakes happen.
I'm giving Chloe
another opportunity
to go right up against Maddie.
Chloe, you better start
concentrating on your hip-hop,
because it is hip-hop.
CHRISTI: Abby gave
Maddie a top solo,
which, clearly,
Maddie excels in tap.
She's had tap classes for years.
And she assigns Chloe hip-hop,
which we don't even have
hip-hop classes at the studio.
She's so unfair.
The group routine is
called Gone Too Soon.
And of course, we're referring
to all those Hollywood
tragedies.
Nia, you will portray
Whitney Houston.
Kendall, I want to see
the sass and spunk of Selena.
Sorry, Kendall,
you are not playing Selena
Gomez.
I'm talking about
the Grammy-winning Latin artist,
Selena.
Brooke will be inspired
by Amy Winehouse.
Ah!
Paige, Anna Nicole Smith.
JILL: Ooh!
Your buddy, Chloe,
will portray Marilyn Monroe.
No! That's not fair!
And Maddie,
who else is there but Princess
Di?
Ooh, I love her.
ABBY LEE: All right. You can go.
Girls, spread apart.
[music playing]
Let's go from the top.
Let's see what we have.
Let's all dance it. Hit it!
I hear echoes inside myself.
ABBY LEE: Come on, push.
Get in the ball of that foot,
right off the floor.
One, two, three, four, five.
Yay! Good girl!
This week, the routine
is entitled Gone Too Soon.
This is a contemporary routine.
It has very intricate timing,
and it's also characterization.
These girls need to become one
with their character.
And they better bring it on,
because everybody
in that audience,
including the judges,
needs to easily recognize
their character.
I got to let you go
in a few minutes.
I want to not keep
choreographing.
I want to go over the story.
You need to tell the audience
and the judges
they shouldn't know
who you are because of the
costume.
They should know
who you are
because you're
telling the story.
Do your homework.
Look on the internet, Google it.
Figure it out.
Or maybe just one of you will be
gone too soon
from the Abby Lee Dance Company.
KELLY: But what shall
we have Abby be?
Well, who can Abby be?
Who's the woman who has the
snakes coming out of her head?
Medusa!
- JILL: Oh, no, Nefertiti.
- Ursula!
- Ursula! She's Ursula.
- The sea witch.
Oh. Ursula was the octopus.
The big black--
CHRISTI: She wears black and she
steals little beautiful
children's talent.
MELISSA: Isn't she?
Yes. She's Ursula.
HOLLY: She's a cartoon.
She's not real.
And she keeps it in a
jar around her neck.
- CHRISTI: She steals talent.
- JILL: She's Ursula.
She is Ursula.
JILL: Oh, golly.
ABBY LEE: Hello.
Are you ready for hip-hop?
Yes?
Is Payton teaching her?
Now, remember, the story
is if you want to be a
celebrity,
you want to be a pop star,
you want to move to LA
and do all these things,
you better be able to be a hip
-hop dancer.
[music playing]
So Chloe is doing a hip-hop
routine entitled beautiful.
It's more of a jazz routine
with hip-hop elements,
hip-hop costume, hip-hop style.
I want her to succeed
with this hip-hop routine.
And I'm bringing Payton in.
Because when Peyton hits
hip-hop, she hits it hard.
KELLY: I think Chloe should say
to her, why am I doing hip-hop?
I'm not a hip-hopper. Whatever.
Again, this is just a way
to humiliate Chloe.
Sometimes, this
is the best dance,
because there's no pressure.
You know you're
not going to win?
So you go out there,
and have fun, and you enjoy.
Holly, is that
what you're saying?
You say Chloe is not
going to win with hip-hop?
They tend to be
very competitive.
It's so clear that Abby
only thinks of Maddie as her
star,
that Chloe is not allowed
to come anywhere near that.
That's why Maddie got tap this
week, and Chloe got hip-hop.
You need to isolate
this movement.
The isolation, the
shoulder, the rib cage.
That's what hip-hop is.
That's why a lot of people,
trained beautiful dancers
can't do it, because it's that
sudden change of direction.
Believe me, I was sitting
next to the guru of hip-hop,
and I learned something.
Maybe if you would
have come out to LA,
you would have
learned something too.
CHRISTI: You know what? I think
is really sad is that you point
-blank said
to all of us
that when the children were
invited
that you were not going to send
Maddie, but then you screwed the
group.
We made agreement about
what we were going to do with
the girls.
We all stood by
that, and you didn't.
Melissa, if I would have
disobeyed the group,
and went, and had Brooke do it--
CHRISTI: Brooke would be
in much better standing.
--Brooke wouldn't have been
at the bottom of the pyramid
this week,
I can guarantee you that.
But I didn't do that,
because I'm a team player.
You know what,
that's my choice as a mother.
So basically, your choice
as a mother is dance trumps all.
Just to be clear, sneaky.
[awkward chuckles]
- CHRISTI: Well--
- That's funny.
Why is that funny?
Because you know Christi sneaks
all the time. You've said it.
- No, I'm saying I wouldn't do
it. - MELISSA: Oh, okay.
- What do I sneak about?
- What do you mean? You talk to
everybody.
Give me a break.
If you could sleep with Abby,
you would, and you know it.
Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah.
Well, that's how you tend
to get ahead in life, Melissa.
Oh, yeah, I sleep
with everybody.
You do, boss.
I've never slept with my boss.
Yes, you did. You married him.
Yes, I married Greg after--
Yeah, after you slept with him
and had an affair when he had a
wife.
MELISSA: I did not!
And you had a husband.
- Guess what?
I didn't sleep with him.
And don't start with
me again, Christi.
JILL: You know what?
I know, storm out.
Oh, I am storming out,
because this is not being
brought up.
CHRISTI: Feel me.
MELISSA: Screw you.
I did not sleep with my boss.
You know what?
You want to play those games?
What's wrong?
JILL: She has to live
with the decisions she made.
Like I'm not going to sit up
here and make this easy on her.
She didn't make it easy
on any of those six little
girls.
JILL: No, but--
CHRISTI: She knew
she had that coming.
[music playing]
- Hey, girls. How are you doing?
- MELISSA: Hey.
- Good.
- ABBY LEE: Good.
After yesterday's
blow out with Melissa
and all of the other moms,
I'm not sure what's
really going on.
But I am going to get
to the bottom of it.
Nobody is going to
mess with Melissa.
So what I need to know
is what happened yesterday.
Well, Christi starts
screaming that--
about I sleep with everybody
to get my kids ahead.
And I'm not taking crap like
that, Abby. I'm done.
- ABBY LEE: I'm sorry. That just
shows-- - That has nothing--
She's trash.
ABBY LEE: --what she is.
Because she goes to that level.
But I don't--
I'm not like that.
I have lots of mean things
to say about her,
and I can't, because
that's not my makeup.
Christie fights
dirty, and I don't.
I think it's wrong,
and I'm not like her,
so I'm not going
to act like her.
I'm not white trash.
[chuckles]
Hello.
If I were a betting woman,
I would say that Melissa is
probably talking to Abby about
me.
If I'm the most exciting thing
that Abby and Melissa have
to talk about,
then they have a really, really
sad life.
If you feel that
you don't want to sit up there
and it's getting crazy,
come down and work the front
desk.
MELISSA: Okay.
Come down and work at the store.
- MELISSA: I will.
- Or come and sit inside the
room.
I don't go for
parents in the room,
but if you can
just sit in the corner quietly,
or play the music,
or something, that's fine with
me.
Okay. That's fine.
- All righty?
- Yep, thank you.
Okay.
I certainly wouldn't
want to sit with them.
So I invite her down
into the studio.
She should see what
Mackenzie's doing.
[music playing]
Mackenzie is doing an acrobatic
gymnastics routine entitled
California Adventure.
It's sassy and fun.
Split! It's a bigger split!
She does a whole lot of stuff
in this number.
She has to have the strength,
the proper technique,
and the stamina to get
through this routine.
You should be on a diagonal.
- Hi, Holly.
- Oh, hey, Hol.
Hello, ladies.
Did you see Melissa downstairs?
CHRISTI: Of course,
Melissa's avoiding the
situation.
It's what she does.
She'd rather high downstairs
and kiss Abby's ass
than come upstairs and face
the music with the rest of us.
You know, she needs
to just admit what she did
and get over it.
She had a meeting
with Abby when I walked in.
They were meeting in the store.
Oh, in store.
And they both went--
and I just kept on going.
Ah.
And she's not up here,
because, you know--
even though she was the one
who sent Maddie to dance for
Abby,
even though the teen
all agreed not to do it,
and she was wrong,
she's punishing all of us.
Own who you are.
Don't sit here and
say, I'm so nice,
and my daughters
are just amazing.
You intentionally do things
to hurt the other kids
but then you claim
you're a team player.
You're not.
You know, when it comes to Abby,
she will do whatever
she wants her to.
Or getting Maddie a routine.
And you said, because she,
Abby, will catapult Maddie
and Mackenzie to stardom.
- CHRISTI: Well, but it's--
- That's what it's all about.
- CHRISTI: But it's--
- So there's never going to be a
chance--
But here's the thing.
You're teaching your kids
that you step on everyone
to get ahead, and that's not
a good lesson to teach your
kids.
ABBY LEE: So let's
go from the top.
It has to be
bigger. It's boring.
Boring!
Mackenzie is not
looking too good.
Mackenzie walked
into this studio
sweaty and out of breath.
She walked in that way.
Usually, that's
how she walks out.
Cartwheel.
Cut, split, arch back.
Why do I have to
say that every time?
Cut, split, arch back! It's one
move. Dah-dah-dah-dah!
Asia isn't here.
This is Mackenzie's shot,
but she's not giving me
what I want.
Melissa, she doesn't know
what she's doing,
she's out of breath,
she can't remember one step
from the next.
No more recess!
Why were you sunburned
when you came in here?
Were you outside at recess?
Outside, running around,
playing all day--
- I know.
- ABBY LEE: --and now, she's
useless.
That's why these kids
need to be home-schooled.
It's ridiculous.
She is useless.
What are you supposed to say
when all the kids
go to the playground?
Sorry, my dance teacher
said no kick ball.
Abby doesn't want Mackenzie
to play during recess.
If it were up to Abby,
Mackenzie wouldn't be allowed
to have any friends at all.
Well, you know, just because
no one played with Abby at
recess,
doesn't mean she has to take it
out on poor little Mackenzie.
Why should Abby have any say-so
when Melissa's kids
play with friends?
That's the whole reason
I send my kids to this school
is to have social interaction
with other children.
But Melissa will do it,
and she'll pull her kid from
school, and not have her do
recess
because Abby said so.
ABBY LEE: Straddle.
Not apron split, a straddle
split.
No, before the tag.
You're doing it different
every time you do it.
MELISSA: You know, I'm sitting
in there watching Mackenzie's
rehearsal.
I'm not looking
at the other moms.
I'm looking at my daughter.
I can care less.
All right, you understand
what you're doing?
Yes?
ABBY LEE: All right,
you're finished.
Melissa, you can go.
I think Melissa's coming up.
[chuckles] Our gossip
is over, ladies.
[chuckles]
I'm through avoiding
the situation.
The moms can talk behind
my back all they want.
They're just going to
have to deal with it.
I did nothing wrong.
JILL: Oh, hello.
HOLLY: Hi.
How did it go?
HOLLY: What was
that about recess?
No recess.
All they do is play.
How does Abby know
what Mackenzie does?
Because she asked her.
And Mackenzie said, we
played outside all day today.
But what's wrong with that?
She has no-- she's tired,
and she's a mess.
I'm like, I don't think--
I thought she looked great.
Sorry, but--
You're certainly not
going to let Chloe,
doing a hip-hop dance, beat you.
Really?
Maddie is doing a tap solo.
I am thrilled.
She's a great tapper,
it's a cute little number.
It's called Me and
You Against the World.
And it's all about
a housewife that woke up
on the wrong side of the bed.
She burnt the bacon
and the pancakes.
She spilled coffee
on her husband.
I mean, the whole nine yards.
[music playing]
I hope you understand.
Call me up after
a bad day of work.
MADDIE: I love tapping.
I've always been tapping
ever since I was four.
It's one of my best strengths.
That's a good song.
Yeah, it's a great solo.
HOLLY: Yeah, it really is.
I like the music.
I thought Abby said she
wasn't running Maddie's solo.
She did.
She told me that today when I
walked in.
That's what she told me.
CHRISTI: I'm thinking she's
going to keep her promise
about not running Chloe's.
- KELLY: [laughs]
- Something just tells me maybe.
That promise she
might keep, but I'm--
Melissa's not
Chloe's mother so--
Of course, Chloe's not
working on her solo.
This is the way it goes here.
[music playing]
[applause]
Abby, she make sure
that nobody wins.
And when Chloe did
win, she made sure
that she went to the judges
and fixed their mistake.
This score ended up
being 97.5, 97 and 1/2.
This should be 96.6.
This is your winner.
ABBY LEE: Maddie won everything.
Melissa, Christi said,
when she came in,
you were having a
meeting with Abby.
What were you
talking to her about?
I wasn't having a meeting.
I was talking to her.
What about?
None of your concern.
Not that you care,
because you hate my kids.
- So don't worry about it.
- Who said I hate your kids?
MELISSA: It's none
of your concern.
My kids are not your concern,
so don't worry about them.
KELLY: We all told
you though, Melissa--
I don't-- I don't--
I don't need to hear anything.
- But whenever--
- MELISSA: I don't need to hear.
- Whenever--
- I really don't.
JILL: --we talk to
you about this--
- I don't care.
- JILL: --you said--
I don't care. I'm over it.
Okay. But then you can't be mad
at us for something you chose to
do.
For talking about my husband,
it has nothing to do with my
kids.
JILL: No, I'm not talking
about your husband.
Oh, bull crap.
I never said anything
about your husband.
What did I say
about your husband?
Nothing. I don't want
to talk about it.
But I want to know why you
don't think we should say
something to you when--
- I don't care.
- You already said something.
- JILL: --it was affecting our
kids.
Whatever.
JILL: We just want you to
live up to what you do.
I told you what I was doing.
And I'm done with it.
- No, you didn't.
- MELISSA: I'm done talking.
- We called you and asked you
about it.
My kids, they come first.
And I'm fine, I
can handle my kids.
I can take care of my kids.
That's what we're
doing with our kids.
- We're trying to protect them.
- Then protect them.
- JILL: Because--
- MELISSA: That's your job.
--you went against
us and hurt them.
I did not hurt your kids.
- Yes, you did.
- Okay, whatever.
I hurt your kids.
I'm a bad person.
Kill me.
I'm sure you wish I would die
in a car accident too.
HOLLY: Oh, no, Melissa.
Oh, my god.
CHRISTI: Shall we
belly up to the bar?
Let's do it.
I love when the moms finally
break free of dance jail.
You know, we get to hang out,
we get to have drinks,
you know, vent a little bit.
- I'll have a diet cola.
- WOMAN: Sure.
Shoot, I was going to get that.
She lives on the edge.
I'll have the $100 martini.
Is anyone really missing
from the picture?
No. We're all here.
I could not believe
earlier that Melissa
said that we hope her
and her kids died in a car
crash.
Yeah, I hate that.
I hate, hate, hate that--
HOLLY: That was just crazy.
That's crazy.
If she really believes
that, then we're in trouble.
- Who thinks that way?
- I don't know.
That was crazy.
I mean, if that's
the way she feels,
you know, I don't
want to be her friend.
Melissa sat there
and told all of us--
- She wouldn't go.
- CHRISTI: She promised.
What does that make you think?
Because that makes me think
that she doesn't really
value our friendship.
She's definitely made
it out that dance
is more important than school.
If the only thing that's
important to you in life
is getting your kids ahead
of other people in dance,
don't sit upstairs
and pretend you don't care.
If your kids win or
lose, own who you are.
- Yeah.
- Stop lying to our faces.
Maddie had an hour with Abby,
Mackenzie had two hours with
Abby,
and Chloe got none?
If you can't see that's wrong,
then you are really blind.
You have a problem.
The fundamental
issue is your word.
You know, friendship,
what is it worth?
And what has taught me
was that I can't trust everybody
when they give their word.
[music playing]
ABBY LEE: Guys, come on.
We're getting on a bus,
we're going tomorrow.
This is the first competition
we've been back since I was
gone.
The group number
is fine choreographically.
But I don't see that skill
of characterization shining
through.
And your competition
except exit.
That was a hot mess.
CHRISTI: I don't
like sitting up here.
I like sitting at
the bar last night.
- The bar last night.
- That was way more fun than
this.
KELLY: That was way better.
You should have came
with us last night.
I went home with my
husband and kids.
I couldn't care less if the moms
went out to drink without me.
I'm not much of a drinker.
So I'd rather be home with
my kids and my husband.
We all talked about it.
Jill was supposed to ask you.
- I was?
- Mackenzie wasn't feeling well.
I didn't realize it was
my job to invite Melissa.
[music playing]
Banging the walls for help.
Some kind of malady--
Chloe, you need to make sure
you're that way a little bit
more.
Point your feet, Paige,
in the middle of the stage.
Foot underneath you.
Some of the kids are still
trying to remember what step
comes next.
Come on, kiddos.
You have been doing
this for three years.
[suspenseful music]
Hey, ladies.
JILL: Hello.
- Hey!
- How are you?
- I'm good.
- HOLLY: I'm hanging in there.
Christi, by the way,
Payton's going to stay 15
minutes late
and help Chloe with her solo.
Did Leslie just rear
her ugly head again?
I thought we got rid of her.
Why is she back?
You're sitting here
listening to this woman,
this drunk, say
what she's saying.
- And you're sitting here--
- Call me a drunk again.
You're not just sitting here
and not telling us what you
really-- like you
are okay with it.
So when we leave, you're not
going to complain to Abby.
If Abby asks Payton
to dance with your kids,
then I'm fine with it.
We are in it 100%.
Anyway, we'll see
you around, ladies.
All right, bye.
Leslie's back.
I think that she's
been planning on trying
to get her daughter in with
this team since day one.
Oh, I do think that's her plan.
It's not often that people
come up here just to say hello
and be nice.
She likes to stir the pot.
CHRISTI: I have enough
crazy dance moms
to deal with sitting upstairs.
I don't need to engage with
two women who are clearly here
just to pick a fight.
We're all stocked
up on crazy here.
KELLY: Did you think at all,
Melissa, about what we talked
about?
You understand where
we're coming from?
I got upset when you talk
about my personal business,
because it's--
I didn't talk about
your personal business.
It's none of anybody's concern.
But you sat here and you said,
oh, you guys hate me.
- You hate my kids.
- I don't-- I never said--
I never said you guys
hate me and my kids.
I know you don't like my kids,
and that's fine.
But that's not true.
What we're trying to say to you,
Melissa, is none of this
has anything to do with
Maddie or Mackenzie.
Right.
- None of it.
- MELISSA: That's fine.
If you don't want to be my
friend anymore-- because I
would do anything for your
kid kids, and you know it.
And I would do
anything for your kids.
Not any more, you
won't I'm sure.
I feel really lost.
I'm torn between my friendships
with my friends
and my children's dance careers.
Clearly, the most important
thing in the world to you
is if your kids win at dance
over our friendship,
over their friendships
with the kids.
You've made that quite clear,
not in your words,
but by your actions.
And you have denied it for three
years sitting here saying,
I don't care if my kids win.
So just sit here and own it.
Say, you know what?
I will do anything I need to
do-- don't sit here and act
like you're not a stage mom.
ABBY LEE: Foot underneath you.
Foot underneath you.
JILL: What's going on in there?
- What is going on in there?
- I don't know.
I thought we were having a
lesson, not a private
conversation.
Okay.
Dr. Holly might have
a PhD in education,
but Melissa has a PhD
in kissing Abby's ass.
[music playing]
[upbeat music]
[fans cheering]
ABBY LEE: Thank you for coming.
We're in Syracuse, New York.
This is our first week
back, so it's very
important for the girls to win.
If they want to
prove themselves,
and prove that they were
working, and they were training,
and they were in class,
then they're going to win again.
All right.
Remember, this is the
first competition back.
This is it.
Don't make me
regret coming home.
So ladies, we have three solos.
Mackenzie, you're
the first solo up.
Then Chloe, your second.
Then Maddie, your third.
- Maddie, are you ready?
- I had a different shirt,
though.
MELISSA: Maddie, come out.
Yeah, okay. That's cute.
I don't like the shirt.
- MELISSA: You don't?
- No, because this is competing.
At this point, Abby
and Team Melissa
should just travel to
competitions on their own.
Because as it stands right now,
we're just kind of the filler
in between the Maddie dances.
ABBY LEE: Let me see.
Do some steps.
I like the back of the shirt.
I like the sleeves bouncing.
I don't know what it is,
but as soon as Abby comes back
in town,
I seem to get all sorts of flack
for any attention that Maddie
gets.
Mackenzie, Asia's
not here this week.
I gave you the solo.
If you bomb, she comes back next
week, she gets the solo.
I can count on her.
She wins because of
this, because of this.
Mackenzie needs to
nail her routine.
With Asia gone, this is going
to be her opportunity to win.
Now, listen, you two.
This is the first time
that you're going up against
each other
since you did the
same exact routine.
[music playing]
It takes a moment to
break a butterfly.
Unaware that's when
you hear an angel cry.
Now, you are doing
polar opposites.
So if you want to do
a hip-hop dance next time
and you want to go to tap dance
in an hour and a half,
we can do that too.
Why shouldn't Chloe
be able to do hip-hop?
If she's going to
work in this business
as a professional dancer,
she better make sure that her
hip-hop is equal with everything
else.
All right, let's go.
[music, cheers and applause]
MELISSA: I'm happy Mackenzie
has a solo this week.
But Abby told Mackenzie,
you have a solo this week
because Asia is not here.
Is it just her way of making
Mackenzie work harder?
EMCEE: All right, and to the
In10sity stage is act number 11.
It's a mini acro solo.
Please welcome Mackenzie
performing California Adventure.
[cheers and applause]
[music playing]
Sunshine, I feel the energy.
I need sunshine
falling down on me.
Now, sunshine,
don't you hide away.
I want sunshine each
and every day, hey.
[applause]
Sunshine, I feel the energy.
I need sunshine
falling down on me now.
Sunshine.
[cheers and applause]
ABBY LEE: Mackenzie looks great.
Costume's adorable.
I think her shot at winning
this is really strong.
CHLOE: This is my first
hip-hop solo ever,
and we've only ever done
two hip-hop group dances.
So it's very weird to be doing
hip-hop, especially as a solo.
EMCEE: And next to the stage
is act number 15 is a junior hip
-hop solo.
Let's please welcome Chloe
performing Keep it Pumping.
[cheers and applause]
[music playing]
Pumping, yeah.
Keep it pumping, keep
it pumping in here.
Put your hands up,
put your hands in the air.
Keep it pumping, keep
it pumping in here.
Put your hands up,
put your hands in the air.
[cheers and applause]
HOLLY: Good job.
EMCEE: That was
beautiful, act number 15.
ABBY LEE: Chloe just performed,
and she was good.
Good enough for first place?
Mm, I don't think so.
But I know that my best shot
for first place is coming up
next.
EMCEE: This is act number 13,
junior tap solo.
Please welcome Maddie performing
You and Me Against the World.
[cheers and applause]
[music playing]
I woke up on the
wrong side of the bed.
And I spilled coffee
on your white T.
I burnt your bacon,
burnt your pancakes, and my
hand.
It's not my day, I
hope you understand.
ABBY LEE: The apron starts to
come down in the middle of the
number.
You know I'll put you first,
ABBY LEE: And that kid
doesn't miss a beat.
She is right on the money
the entire routine.
Me and you against the world.
[cheers and applause]
EMCEE: That was You and Me
Against the World.
That kid was like a pro.
JILL: I thought all
of them look great.
Mackenzie is looking so strong.
And Maddie looked great.
Maddie's apron came down,
and I looked over at Abby--
- JILL: Abby was laughing.
- --and Abby laughed.
I know.
When Chloe lost her headband,
Christi was like--
- Dead
- --murdered.
Oh, my god.
It came forward.
What did you want me to do?
You were in the
bar having a drink,
and her head piece
is falling off!
Like she's not going to come
in here and yell at Melissa.
She's not going to be upset with
Maddie like she screamed at me,
she was angry with Chloe.
Like, that's not going
to happen with them.
It is what it is.
I guess I should have pinned it.
But I had it
Velcroed really good.
- But you must have gotten it
like-- - Just--
MELISSA: You must have just
gotten it in your hair.
Melissa, you are
on my last nerve.
Amazing job.
I was nervous. Seen
Chloe, you did a great job too,
but we're back to right where
we started, forgetting the
dance.
Did you forgot the dance?
You forgot this whole thing.
- That's eight counts.
- I did--
You did not do this.
This, swish, swish.
You're really going
to argue with me?
- [sighs]
- ABBY LEE: Really?
CHRISTI: As far as I can see,
Chloe didn't forget any piece
of her choreography.
And if she did, I put
that back on Abby,
because she gave her
two times to run the dance.
Who remembers that entire
dance with two rehearsals?
[music playing]
Okay.
Look, it keeps
getting curly again.
CHRISTI: [gasps] Don't touch it!
I'm sorry, Maddie.
Oh, Maddie, I'm sorry.
I'm a wicked brusher.
I forgot to tell you.
I'm sorry.
Woo, baby!
ABBY LEE: All right, come on.
Let me see this looks.
Let's go. Good.
This is it, ladies.
Chloe, Maddie, now is
the time to go out and prove
how wonderful you are.
Go out and do what
you were taught.
Now, this group,
I'm a little worried about.
I don't understand
why the kids
aren't more familiar
with these characters.
Let's go. Come on.
[music playing]
[indistinct chatter]
EMCEE: And to the In10sity stage
is act number 86,
a junior contemporary
small group.
Please welcome, Gone Too Soon.
[cheers and applause]
[music playing]
I hear echoes inside myself,
banging the walls for help.
Eating at my heart,
choking on the darkness outside
myself.
Some kind of malady
I can't spell.
Eating at my heart, choking on
the darkness outside myself.
Banging the walls to tell me
that I'm not an empty shell.
It comes from the inside of me.
My reality is
nothing I can't be.
Oh, I won't wait.
[cheers and applause]
EMCEE: And that was Gone too
Soon, act number 86.
ABBY LEE: The kids went on stage
to dance. They looked beautiful.
Now, can I be honest?
The only person I
watch was Maddie.
I was watching her face.
She was all over the place.
She was sad, and she was angry,
and she was haunting
all at the same time.
[upbeat music]
EMCEE: In the elite mini solo
division, in second place,
with a score of 271.5 points,
is Miss Kayla with act number
one,
Paw Paw Patch.
[cheers and applause]
And your highest scoring
elite mini soloist,
with a score of 280 points,
is Miss Mackenzie with act
number 11, California Adventure.
[cheers and applause]
Congratulations,
you guys. Great job.
MELISSA: Mackenzie
won first place.
Abby really wanted
Mackenzie to prove to her
that she could win.
And she won by 8.5 points.
EMCEE: And now for our
elite junior soloist.
In fourth place,
with a score of 275.3 points,
is Miss Chloe with
act number 15,
Beautiful,
from the Abby Lee Dance Company.
[cheers and applause]
First runner up
with a score of 280.7 points
is Miss Maddie with act number
18, You and Me Against the
World.
Yay, Maddie!
[cheers and applause]
That is a joke.
And your highest scoring
elite junior soloist
is Miss Haley with act number
10, Pardon my Southern Accent.
[cheers and applause]
I am livid. Second?
Are you serious?
EMCEE: All right.
Now for our elite junior
small group, in third place
was act number 81, Mannequin.
[applause]
In second place with a score
of 275 points is act number 88,
Rockebel's Canon
from Tawn Marie's.
[cheers and applause]
And your highest scoring
elite junior small group,
with a score of 277.5 points,
is act number 86,
Gone Too Soon
from the Abby Lee Dance Company.
[cheers and applause]
Congratulations to all of our
elite junior small groups.
The group just won first place,
and Abby can't even bother
to look up from her phone,
because she's so upset that
Maddie got second place.
Oh, boy.
Thank God that we won
in the group dance.
- Yeah.
- I know.
Oh, I don't think Abby
cares that the girls won.
The only thing she cares
about is Maddie's solo.
KELLY: I feel kind of bad
that the girls probably
won't get to enjoy their win.
So all your kissing ass
and doing whatever has paid off.
And aren't you glad that
you went to LA to make sure
that she will protect you?
But you don't see when you
do things against the group
that it hurts our kids.
My kids come first to me,
and they always will come first
to me.
I can't say that I'm fed up
with Melissa's lying
and fakeness,
because I've always been fed up
with Melissa's
lying and fakeness.
But I think all of the other
moms in the room
are finally fed up with it too.
[girls whooping]
Good job!
I got fourth with hip-hop!
CHRISTI: I know. High five!
KELLY: You did good.
- High five.
See?
And Melissa thought you were
upset.
Uh, you said that Maddie was so
upset, okay?
- So kiss my ass!
- CHRISTI: She looked upset.
Why are you saying this
in front of your kids?
Because guess what?
You do it all the time.
You talk about my
kid all the time.
You said, oh, Maddie is upset.
Every time Maddie doesn't win,
oh, my god, Maddie's upset.
Maddie's upset.
So don't play the the game.
She was crying. Thank you.
Oh, whatever.
Screw you! I'm done.
I'm so over it. You know what?
You're always against me.
Come on. Why don't you tell that
that trashy girl to stop?
- Let's go.
- We're leaving.
When I walk into the dressing
room. And Melissa's mad.
She's leaving.
The other kids aren't even in
there.
They're all milling around.
What is going on
with the Abby Lee Dance Company?
Come on, girls.
You are all sitting here
like we have another number.
It's over. Get your
stuff together.
Okay, let's go.
We don't have yet our children.
- Stop it.
- MELISSA: Maddie, please, stop.
ABBY LEE:
Melissa, what's going on with
you?
Tell me what happened.
Maddie is fine.
Maddie, learn from Chloe or
learn from Christi being evil,
not to cry.
You've got to save
it for the pillow,
because people like
that make it worse.
Every time you get knocked down,
you fight that much more.
And that's what
makes you Maddie.
You're a survivor.
Got it?
The moms? They're
jealous of Maddie.
This is Maddie's time to shine,
and they don't understand that.
Come over here
and give me a hug.
Oh.
Next on "Dance Moms."
This week, you will be
performing in the annual dance
concert.
Now, something else is going on.
We're going to throw
in a photo shoot.
Shush the beak!
Stop it.
Since when does your
ass go on my stage?
If you think Christi and Kelly
are going to make your kid
a star, by all means, go.
Pick which side you're on.
Never in 40 years of being
in the Abby Lee Dance Company
has anyone been giving a solo
the day of the [bleep] recital!
She's going to crap all over me
and talk to me that way
in front of my customers?
No way.